Welcome to JW Broadcasting.
What do we have for you on this month's program?
We'll hear the story of Cecil Goff,
an elder and regular pioneer with over 80 years in Jehovah's service.
What valuable lessons from his experience can you apply to your life and ministry?
Whether we are young or old, how can we make good decisions when choosing entertainment?
In this traumatization, we'll see how a young brother named Danny learns the value of sewing
what is wholesome in his mind.
Has a challenge in your life ever been so severe that you felt overwhelmed?
When anxiety stirs within us, this new music video can reassure us of Jehovah's loving support.
This is JW Broadcasting for September 2018.
We start this month with a story of brother Cecil Goff.
Cecil is 99 years old and has served Jehovah for over 80 years.
He spent many of those years in full-time service.
He had the privilege to serve at Brooklyn Bethel as a circuit overseer,
as a Gilead train missionary, and as a branch overseer in Cuba.
As you watch his interview, try to determine why he's convinced
that his life in Jehovah's service was more rewarding than anything the world had to offer.
My name is Cecil Joseph Goff.
I begin to lose eyesight in the seventh is I can't see to read anything.
I see on a peripheral vision.
I was playing in a country band at very young age.
Well, I played there, Tenor Bancho, Tenor Guitar, and I played the Mandolin.
It was my life.
And yet, when I began reading and studying really there, I wanted to stick with that,
and I left the band.
I started pioneering, and then they assigned me to Texas.
And another brother was stopped, as we were holding the phonograph up,
and I was playing it for a lady at the door.
Why hear about 15 or 20 men surrounded me?
I asked him, I had to enjoy it.
He says, that's not the question.
My question is, do you salute the flag?
And I said, let me explain you, so I don't want an explanation.
I just want to know, yes or no.
Do you or do you not?
I said, I do not.
I threw him up in the air, I fell on my back, in the street there,
and then about three of them got on top of me,
and says, you're going to salute the flag or eat it.
Bring me that flag over there.
I was praying that you hover to remember me in the resurrection.
About that time, several women run out of the houses on both sides of us,
and let those men alone.
They didn't bother you. Let them alone. Let them go.
So they got off of me, and they left us like a bunch of beaten kittens.
I was asked to go to Brooklyn, Bethel,
and become a member of the Bethel home.
Brother Norr asked me, you know how to use the typewriter,
and I said, yes, I can type.
He says, well, I'm going to put you on a machine.
It's called a line of type.
There's three keyboards, and he says,
it'll take you about two years to learn it.
Are you willing to accept it?
And I said, yes, I will.
So I was put on the line of the type.
And I got married in the fall of 1945,
left Bethel.
Well, we were invited in 1949 to go into the circuit work.
We were in the 21st class of Gillard,
we enjoyed that course very much.
We received an assignment for Cuba,
and I was assigned as a branch overseer.
And in 63,
the police car came up to the branch about 10 o'clock at night.
I was told to take my papers and we went over to the police station,
so forth.
And sure enough, soon thereafter,
here come in an official,
said that you're having to leave Cuba
because you're not in favor of the Cuban government.
The person asked,
a policeman standing close by,
this says, who are these people
that are being sent out of the country?
And this says, over there,
he's talking about me.
See that gangster man over there?
He's ahead of it.
So what then we got on the plane
and we headed back,
a guy didn't contact with Brooklyn Bethel.
He talked to brother-in-law and he says,
as soon as you can,
next day or two,
come back to Bethel.
Brother North said you got back just in time
to get back on the landing-time machine
and set up a new book we have in Spanish.
So I did that, he got on the landing-time.
And then brother-in-law told Mrs.
in 1964,
we're going to have a 10-month course in Gillard,
for all branch people who had branch experience.
Oh, it was very, very good.
We studied a lot of,
not only the Bible,
we studied a lot on the Bible,
discourses and everything.
But we studied a lot of branch material too.
Above everything else,
our lover, Jehovah,
should continue to grow.
He knows our thoughts,
our mind, our heart.
He goes far beyond what man can do.
And whatever his decision is,
he learned to understand it's the best decision.
I have learned that if we obey
what the organization says,
what the Bible says,
then we're doing Jehovah's will,
and that's my concern.
No regret.
It's whatever.
None.
Maybe I could have done more at times,
but I'm certainly glad that I have taken advantage of it,
as much as I have up from now.
And it's been a happy life.
And I have seen Jehovah's hand
time and again.
Brother Goff has led a full,
happy life in theocratic service.
But do you wonder,
how is he able to persevere for so many years,
and through so many different assignments?
Cecil learned the value
of letting Jehovah and his organization
shape his thinking.
But he had to make a choice as a young man.
A choice all of Jehovah's servants have to make.
And that's the basis for our discussion this month.
The theme is,
stop being molded by this system of things.
In describing Godly wisdom,
the ancient man Job recognized it as priceless.
At Job 28 17, he said,
gold and glass cannot be compared to it.
Glass has been around for centuries,
even back in Job's day.
However, what revolutionized glass production
was the invention of glass blowing.
By blowing through a hollow tube,
a glass bowler can quickly mold superheated molded glass
into a specific shape.
Satan's system has developed the art
of shaping the minds of people
into fragile glass vessels
with little useful purpose.
In fact, Romans 9.22 refers to such ones
as vessels of wrath
made fit for destruction.
Find with me Romans 12.2.
What is responsible for molding and shaping
the inclinations of the people of the world?
Romans 12.2.
And stop being molded by this system of things
but be transformed by making your mind over
so that you may prove to yourselves
the good and acceptable
and perfect will of God.
To counteract being molded,
the verse said,
but be transformed by making your mind over.
So the molding of this system
is related to our thinking,
the shaping of our minds.
But what evil air is blown down the hollow tube?
It's identified quite clearly for us
in Ephesians 2, 2, and 3.
Concernary to Christians previous
unclean thinking and behavior,
verse 2 says,
in which you at one time walked
according to the system of things of this world,
according to the ruler of the authority of the air,
the spirit that is now at work
in the sons of disobedience.
The verse makes clear that this system of things
has a ruler.
The ruler of the authority of the air,
the verse indicates that the air
is the spirit of the world.
But with such a mindset,
what kind of behavior does the thinking of the world lead to?
Verse 3,
Yes, among them,
we all at one time conducted ourselves
in harmony with the desires of our flesh,
carrying out the will of the flesh,
and of our thoughts,
and we were naturally children of wrath
just as the rest.
For this reason, they become
the vessels of wrath
made fit for destruction.
Glassblowers often work in groups known as shops.
An apprentice dips a hollow blowpipe
into the liquid glass.
By twirling it,
he gathers a blob of molten glass.
He shapes the blob
by rolling it on a smooth surface
called a marver.
He then passes the tube to the gaffer
or shop master.
He blows air into the tube
and fashions the glass into a globe.
Well, if a wine glass is being made,
the tube is then passed to the stem maker,
and another gather of glass is attached.
It's then shaped by means of long pointed tongs
to form the stem.
Then another gather of hot glass
is added to the stem.
The craftsman rolls the tube on the arm of his chair.
He forms the base of the glass.
We will briefly consider four ways
that this system subtly tries to shape our mind
into Satan's designs.
The first is harmful peer pressure.
Now often this is just an apprentice in Satan's shop.
Maybe fellow students in school,
fellow workers on the job.
Don't you think Satan will try to capitalize
on these circumstantial relationships?
Absolutely.
Peer pressure.
It can have an influence on our mind.
They may make fun of our wholesome morals,
our clean speech, our dignified dress.
That is pressure.
Possibly they invite us to do things
that we know will lead to no good.
They are twirling us with their thinking,
with their taunts,
or maybe with their flattery and temptation.
They are rolling things over and over in our mind.
Turn to 2nd Peter, 2 18 and 19.
And as you read this,
can you pick out a word that's equivalent to peer pressure?
Let's read 2nd Peter 2 18 and 19.
They make high sounding statements
that are empty, like air.
By peeling to the desires of the flesh
and with acts of brazen conduct,
they entice.
That's peer pressure.
They entice people who have just escaped
from those who live an error.
While they are promising them freedom,
they themselves are slaves of corruption.
For if anyone is overcome by someone,
he is his slave.
The verse says,
if we're overcome by peer pressure enticed,
we actually become a slave of that person.
That is scary.
It's dangerous.
Peer pressure is deceptively strong.
But what is another way that the spirit of this system
can shape our thinking?
You recall the apprentice passed the glass-blowing tube
to the gaffer who blew air into the glass,
giving it shape.
What does Satan and this system next use
to mold our thinking?
Enticing advertisements.
Like the air of a glass-blower,
advertisements often have little substance.
For example, that product we decided to buy
when we last went shopping.
Maybe it was a brand of clothing
or a brand of dry cereal we bought for breakfast.
Is that always purely a personal,
rational decision on our part?
Or did advertising subtly
but powerfully affect our choice?
Now it's not that all advertising
is bad or misleading.
But the more we allow ourselves to be influenced by it,
the more we are in danger of being led
into a materialistic way of life.
For example, instead of dry cereal,
are we now influenced to buy that flashy looking sports car?
Turn to 1 John 2 15 through 17.
This system inflates our thinking by means of things.
1 John 2 15 and 16.
Do not love either the world or the things in the world.
If anyone loves the world,
the love of the Father is not in him,
because everything in the world,
the desire of the flesh,
and the desire of the eyes,
and the showy display of one's means of life,
not originate with the Father,
but originates with the world.
Why do we need to resist catering
to advertisements that feed the spirit of the world?
Verse 17.
Furthermore, the world is passing away,
and so is its desire.
But the one who does the will of God remains forever.
Remember Eve.
Satan advertised the forbidden fruit.
The scripture says it was desirable to the eyes
that tree was pleasing to look at.
She succumbed to the advertisement
with disastrous results.
Similarly, Satan used advertisements
to try to reshape Jesus' focus.
Matthew 4 says that Satan showed him
all the kingdoms of the world,
offering them an exchange
of one act of worship.
Jesus simply turned him off.
Don't be overly influenced by advertisements.
But what's the next aspect of the system
that can distort our minds?
Bad associations.
It is as if the gaffer has now passed
the glass-blowing tube to the stem maker.
He takes another gather of molten glass
and attaches it to our globe.
Then he stretches that associated blob
into the form of a stem.
Well, we already talked about pure pressure.
But that often comes from those
who are not necessarily our close associates.
What we're discussing now
is our decisions about whom we spend a lot of time with.
People who don't love Jehovah
can stretch and misshape our minds,
providing a stem or a handle
for the world to hold us by.
Turn to 1 Corinthians 1533.
Sometimes we hear the phrase
that some of the kids in school
are nicer than some of the kids in the congregation.
But usually nicer actually means more fun
rather than more wholesome.
But let's look at 1 Corinthians 1533 in its context.
What do the Apostle Paul mean
when he said to the Corinthians
bad associations?
1 Corinthians 1533.
Do not be misled.
Bad associations spoil useful habits.
But what made these ones bad association?
Let's see it in context.
Look at 1 Corinthians 1512.
Now, if it is being preached
that Christ has been raised from the dead,
how is it that some among you say
there is no resurrection of the dead?
Well, what was the initial problem
with these associates?
They did not believe the same way.
Well, why would that make them bad associations?
Because when an associate believes
will eventually affect our thinking
and our thinking affects our behavior.
Notice how Paul describes this.
Look at 1 Corinthians 1532.
What good is it to endure the rigors
of the Christian race for life
if there is no resurrection,
no future, no hope?
Verse 32.
If like other men I have fought
with wild beasts at Ephesus,
of what good is it to me?
If the dead are not to be raised up,
let us eat and drink.
For tomorrow we are to die.
May all of us avoid bad association
whether in person, on TV,
or on the internet.
What is a fourth means
by which Satan attempts to fashion us,
reshaping our thinking?
Higher education.
Most of us remember the January 2015
JW Broadcasting program hosted by Brother Morris
of the governing body.
He focused on the value of divine education.
But he also reaffirmed
the dangers of pursuing higher secular education.
Its whole purpose is for learning,
influencing one's thinking.
And will a person's intention
might be just to create a stable base
for a secular future?
His decision could expose him
to unscriptural ideas and practices.
Back to the glass shop.
Recall that another gather of hot glass
is added to the end of the stem?
The craftsman then rolls the two
backwards and forward.
He forms the base for the glass.
Well, we will say no more about this topic
other than what Brother Morris has already shared.
You might want to go back
and review that broadcast.
However, we would like to read
the first Timothy 6, 2021.
Timothy, guard what has been entrusted to you.
That's divine education.
Turning away from the empty speeches
that violate what is holy
and from the contradictions
of the falsely-called knowledge.
By making a show of such knowledge,
some have deviated from the faith.
Unfortunately,
in an effort to make a stable base
for one's financial future,
many have deviated from the faith.
In the visuals of a glass-blowing shop,
we observed the skill of the workers involved.
And that shop obviously produces beautiful,
useful glass vessels.
Satan's glass shop is also skilled
at shaping one's thinking.
But what does it produce?
Instead of a person becoming a valuable vessel
that Jehovah can use,
Satan is actually mass-producing
worthless vessels that Jehovah cannot use.
What could you do with this mishap creation?
Nothing, it is useless.
At the outset, Romans 9.22 was quoted.
Those who conform to Satan's system
are referred to as vessels of wrath
and made fit for destruction.
Jehovah's paid a high price for us.
Gold and glass cannot be compared to it.
May we make over our minds
by applying godly wisdom.
Glorified Jehovah as a vessel that he can use.
1 Corinthians 6.20 concludes this discussion nicely saying,
for you were bought with a price.
By all means, glorify God in your body.
May the world try to mold us.
Another way is through the entertainment it produces.
How can we choose entertainment that will enhance
and not taint our sacrifice to Jehovah?
In the following dramatization,
notice how a fellow Christian
helps a young brother to make better choices.
I promised to kill I'd go out and serve us with him after school.
I kept my word, but my head just wasn't in it.
Akeel could tell.
So he tried to see if everything was okay.
Honestly, at the time,
I would have rather been playing video games.
But I couldn't tell him that.
I mean, he's a pioneer.
I'm an hysterial servant.
He wouldn't understand.
Later that week,
Akeel invited me to go mountain biking with some friends.
It was actually really fun.
So then you're obviously good at biking.
What else do you like to do for fun?
Soon, I was showing him my video games.
And surprisingly,
he liked video games too.
But he said he chose to be selective.
He began to describe the gladiators in ancient Rome.
People would come from all over to watch them fight to the death.
And while the spectators weren't in any physical danger,
the real danger came over time.
Repeatedly watching the blood shed and the killing,
it was dulling their senses.
And they wanted more of it.
It was a big test for the Christians who lived back then.
Akeel helped me to reason on the scripture at Romans 12, verse 9.
A poor, what is wicked,
cling to what is good.
So Danny, the games may have changed over time,
but the violence is still the same.
I like video games,
but I avoid the ones that promote what Jehovah hates.
Jehovah's people can still have fun.
And yeah, we can even play video games.
I just want to make wise choices.
And I want to show Jehovah that I hate wickedness
and make his heart glad.
This video is part of a series of videos.
We're pleased to announce that all 17 episodes
will be made available under a new principles for daily living category.
It can be found in both the family
and our meetings and ministry sections.
As we saw in this episode,
our choice and entertainment can affect our worship.
We could be exposing ourselves to Satan's thinking.
If you're enticed by entertainment that displeases Jehovah,
what Bible principles will help you?
Chapter 6 of The God's Love Book features a box entitled,
What Entertainment Should I Choose?
Make the scriptures in this feature a matter of prayer
and discussion in family worship.
They will help you cling to what is good.
But at times, clinging to the good
includes receiving discipline which can be painful.
How can we look beyond any pain to the benefits of divine correction?
At a Bethlehem morning worship, Brother Anthony Morris,
a member of the governing body,
discussed how a proper view of discipline
brings us closer to Jehovah.
This morning I thought I'd discuss the matter
of a proper view of discipline keeps us close to Jehovah.
In the context of today's text about Jehovah correcting
to the proper degree,
he's talking to us people about being brought back to their land.
He was not going to exterminate them,
nor leave them.
And it helps us to appreciate that he wanted them
to keep their relationship with him.
Now, today we received discipline in various ways.
It might be from personal Bible study.
And I was excited this morning.
I don't know when it happened, maybe last night.
But to see what we have in the JW library,
we can put our personal notes and get started with some already.
So that'll be like thoughts discipline
from Jehovah that is just between him and ourselves.
Very beneficial.
The wise way to go when it comes to discipline
keeps us from veering off in our relationship with him.
It might be something we read in the publication,
might hear a talk, at a meeting,
at an assembly or a convention,
something in a JW broadcast.
Various ways, any numbers of ways Jehovah will discipline us.
And we need to remember he does it
so that we remain close to him.
The problem is discipline is not easy to take.
It requires humility.
And the proper view of disciplines found here in Proverbs chapter 3.
And this gives us the scriptural basis
to have this proper view of discipline
that'll keep us close to Jehovah God.
And notice verse 11 and 12 of Proverbs chapter 3.
My son do not reject the discipline of Jehovah
and do not loathe his reproof.
For those whom Jehovah loves, he reproves.
Just as a father does a son in whom he delights.
So how might we reject the discipline of Jehovah well?
Put yourself in a position.
You're being counseled.
It's come to the point where overseers,
elders have had to sit down with you.
Now, as soon as the council begins to flow,
there is this quickness to be upset, to justify,
to feel picked on.
Well, Jehovah's say, don't reject this.
And if they're using the scriptures
and thoughts from publications,
view it as coming from Jehovah,
so that we can stay close to him.
Now, give you an idea of sometimes reading something
that will bring us close to Jehovah,
especially if we veered off and didn't even realize it.
I'm going to go way back to some examples
of Jehovah's sheep reading something in the watchtower
and it just disciplined them,
so that they could get close to Jehovah.
And it goes way back to 1982
and had to do with TV serials or soap operas.
And so I'm going to say, well, that's a long time ago.
Well, the fact is nothing's changed.
Some of these soap operas are still on that had the names,
that they had in 1982, they still have it.
So many readers personally benefited from the council.
The council still applies that was found there,
but I think it's very touching and commendable for the ones
that read that they recognized that it impacted
their relationship with Jehovah,
and they wanted to get close to him.
Now, the cover on the watchtower was soap operas,
can they corrupt the heart?
And in the opening article, we did say millions of women
and men of all ages, races, and backgrounds
will rarely miss a show.
Well, now you can record them and have many times
that they like.
It's still an ongoing problem and an issue for a true Christian,
a worship of Jehovah to make sure we're not being corrupted
by soap operas, TV serials.
Now, after the articles came out,
we had some write-in to explain what happened to them.
And so months later, after this 1982 issue
of the watchtower, and that was December 1st,
we went to 83 watchtower, December 1st,
and here's the response from some of the readers.
And I found it very commendable,
and I think you'll appreciate the humility
because it takes humility to accept
and have the proper view of discipline.
So one of the dangers that the brothers were warned
about is that you get emotionally attached
to the characters in the show.
So here's what Ron wrote.
I had grown up watching this one soap opera
and the character Julie was just like my friend.
One day, Julie had an accident
that left her beautiful face badly scarred.
I was in front of the TV set every day
to make sure she was going to pull through.
That night, as I was saying my prayers,
before I even thought what I was saying,
I prayed, and Jehovah, please bless Julie.
Well, she admits I was shocked.
She should have been.
This plea to Jehovah for Julie
had come from my heart.
Realizing how involved she'd become,
she stopped watching these programs.
She wrote, if all readers will take your article
on TV serials to heart,
they will feel a real sense of freedom.
Since our own everyday problems are enough to cope with.
So you see, our sister had the proper view of discipline
and she was able to keep close to Jehovah.
Now another one after expressing appreciation wrote,
I realized that I was addicted to soap operas,
and that I had to do something about it.
I wondered too if my relationship with Jehovah
could be affected.
How could I have them as friends
and also be a friend to Jehovah?
I had to quit all at once.
It was the only way and how hard it was she admits.
So what she had to do to break free,
she had to unplug her TV,
she'd go outdoors and work in the garden,
call somebody, anything to stay busy
so that she wouldn't go back to watching those soap operas.
She took time for personal Bible study.
They'll keep you close to Jehovah,
preparing for her meetings and other spiritual things.
And then she confesses how much better I felt.
It has been over two years now,
this last writing, since I've seen those soul-called friends.
I must admit that at times I still wonder
what's going on with them,
but I fight it.
Perhaps many others who have not yet broken free will now.
Jehovah new brothers, or she says thank you,
Jehovah new brothers for exposing this good for nothing thing.
And finally this third one says I cried when I read the articles.
I discovered that my heart was no longer complete toward Jehovah.
I promised my God that I would no longer be a slave to these cereals
and asked him to help me to get out of my home
on the day of the program.
Two days later I was invited to attend a Bible study
on the very day and time of my cereal.
I happily accepted and noticed I now feel closer to Jehovah.
And my relationship with him is more intimate.
How good Jehovah is to discipline us through his word.
Yes, she has the proper view of discipline.
Now finally let's look at Hebrews chapter 12
and we appreciate these sincere comments.
And the counsel there certainly applies
any kind of entertainment that has that corrupting influence
would be avoided by a true Christian.
So here in Hebrews chapter 12, notice verse 11,
true no discipline seems for the present to be joyous
but it is painful.
Yet afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness
to those who have been trained by it.
So discipline is painful but the peaceable fruit of righteousness
makes it worth it to have a proper view of the discipline
and to accept it humbly so we can remain close
to our precious father, Jehovah.
Discipline helps us reshape our thinking and actions,
drawing us closer to our grand creator.
It may come from God's word.
Publications produced by the faithful and discreet slave,
apparent or mature fellow Christians.
No matter how we receive discipline,
always remember what Proverbs 312 says.
Those whom Jehovah loves he reproves,
just as a father does a son in whom he delights.
But what if the world's thinking has molded you
but not by choice, by circumstance?
You'll appreciate the story of Sister Guzel Guy Nanchana,
who was not raised as one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
In her youth, Guzel searched for fulfillment
through competitive sports.
Even though she achieved some level of success,
what helped her to find a true purpose in life?
I lived in the North with the glorious dark,
starlit sky and the beauty of furtries.
I thought it was the most wonderful place in the world.
My mom was always drawing my attention
to the beauty of creation.
And she always told me, my daughter,
it's so important to live your life in the right way.
And the question that stayed with me was,
so why are we alive?
Why is there so much suffering in justice, pain?
When I was 18, I took up a form of karate known as
kiu kushinkai.
Just imagine a large number of people
in Kamono standing in lows,
grieving without a shadow of fear working
on improving their blows and striving to progress.
I thought, this is it, this is what I've been looking for.
I set the goal of reaching the next world championships,
winning a high place and immortalizing myself,
so that my name would remain and generations would remember me.
Among those sportsmen, I always saw a lot of nice words
and slogans, not everything was as pure as I'd hoped for.
And then on one occasion, I was sitting down
and feelings of emptiness just wouldn't leave me alone.
And for the first time in my life, I talked to God
and then I prayed, I don't understand you.
Why is there so much beauty in the world
and get so much suffering?
Is that really what you want for us to live like this?
I prayed, I guess, for about four hours.
You know, the strongest feeling of emptiness and loneliness
is out of a creation, without its creator.
And I was so lonely at that time.
And a while afterwards, there was a knock at my door.
It was Jehovah's Witnesses.
I started studying the Bible.
It was so wonderful.
On one occasion, the sister who studied with me,
looked up at me and when she looked at those bruises,
those beaten up knuckles,
she took a deep breath and shook her head.
I said, is there something wrong?
She said, you know, I'm in great pain.
I said, why are you in pain?
She said, well, I'm looking at your hands,
your elbows, your battered legs,
all of that, doesn't it hurt?
I said, well, yes.
And she said, you know, it hurts me to see you in pain.
And I started to understand that Jehovah is the true God,
that this really was the truth.
It was difficult.
The pressure from relatives and friends was very strong.
But the most difficult thing that I had to battle with
was my strong attachment to karate.
Just a year remained until the World Championships.
I had prepared for them.
I had been working toward that goal for five years.
Glory can seem really sweet.
When you are the victor,
when your opponents fall to the ground.
So I flew to the World Championships.
When I made it to the last four winners
and I had to fight for third place,
I wanted to ask my trainer to stop.
Why?
Because I couldn't feel a single life place on my body.
Everything was beaten up.
But he said, you know,
we love you so much.
Go for it.
And at that moment,
it felt as though I was weighing love.
The world's love
and the love of Jehovah's organization.
It seemed to me that the world was saying,
we love you.
Now just go and die.
But the love in the organization says,
it hurts me to see you in pain.
I realized that the world can't give you what it doesn't have.
It doesn't know how to love.
But nevertheless, I went to the fight
and became the bronze medalist.
And when I stood on the podium of glory,
I understood that glory among people
who don't love you weighs no more than emptiness.
If a person dedicates his life to glorifying himself,
he will always meet with disappointment and emptiness.
So I made the firm decision to escape from karate.
I started preaching,
and I was baptized in 2005 at the summer convention in Kurgans.
Later, I started full-time service.
I learned the Tatar language
so that I could serve in that territory.
Now, when in the evenings I look up at the starry sky,
I feel not hopelessness,
but tremendous joy because I know who is behind it all.
Our loving creator, Jehovah God.
Guzel had been molded by the system of things,
but she was transformed by making her mind over.
The literal cuts and bruises Guzel suffered, healed with time.
But she found true comfort from the one described at Psalm 147-3,
who heals the brokenhearted,
and who binds up the emotional wounds inflicted by this system of things.
Her example shows that no matter our situation or background,
the beautiful truths of God's Word can change us.
It may feel like a leap of faith to leave behind
secret pursuits to reach spiritual goals.
Some have made this leap after investing years of training,
education, and financial resources towards a career in the world.
If that's true for you,
rest assured that you are not alone.
Our next segment will introduce you to young ones
who resisted the pressure to conform to the world's view of success.
Right now I'm serving in the Central America branch
and I have the opportunity to work with extraordinary brothers and sisters,
both here and in other parts of the world.
My name is Rogelio, I'm part of the art department,
and I'm a digital illustrator.
Music really means the world to me.
I am Joyce, I am a pioneer,
and I sing also in the Bethel Chorus.
My name is Lil Lenn,
and I serve as a regular pioneer in a congregation where there's a need.
I love doing that, my life is wonderful.
Seeing people's faces light up when you teach them God's name,
or when you tell them of Jehovah's promises for us,
fills me with great joy.
My name is Josue Mape,
I serve as a regular pioneer and as an elder in the congregation.
Ever since I was little,
I've always loved playing soccer,
and that was my biggest dream.
My goal was to become a professional soccer player.
The truth is, setting goals was always difficult for me
because I always had two passions.
Am I a servant of Jehovah, or an artist?
My goal was to become the best gymnast in the world.
At that moment, gymnastics were number one in my life.
I played at big festivals,
standing ovation,
that was amazing.
I was surrounded by non-witnesses,
using drugs, smoking, swearing.
My trainer had mapped out a complete training program
with the Olympics as a goal.
This would make me feel trapped.
I started thinking,
what do I want to do with my life?
More importantly, what does Jehovah want?
When I was studying design, I was already a regular pioneer.
It wasn't easy for me to come to the understanding
that the one who really matters is Jehovah.
When I was 16 years old,
different teams started offering me high-paying contracts.
I felt a lot of pressure,
and it was a temptation because they would constantly call me
and come to my house.
I noticed that when the players played the sport,
they were happy.
But afterwards, they weren't.
My mother was in the full-time service,
and I saw her happiness.
That motivated me because I too wanted to experience
that lasting happiness.
I felt a little guilty when I thought of how much of myself
I was giving to design and art and all of that.
So that's when I made my decision.
I decided to leave university and focus on my service.
I realized that for a long time,
I hadn't been growing spiritually.
I prayed intensely to Jehovah.
I asked, do I know you?
Do I live the way you would want?
And after that, I stopped performing with non-witnesses.
I prayed to Jehovah.
And then, at the convention,
we received a DVD young people asked,
what will I do with my life?
That really was Jehovah's answer to my prayers.
In the Bible, it says,
that the truth will set you free.
That freedom is something I never used to feel.
I love working together with other sisters in the ministry,
to see how they share my enthusiasm for making return visits
and conducting Bible studies.
It's just wonderful to see.
To wake up each day, knowing that I'm going to do something new
for Jehovah is extraordinary.
It's an unbelievable blessing.
It's like living a dream.
I feel that I belong to a global organization
and we are all going in the same direction.
It's something really wonderful for me.
To sing for Jehovah is the most beautiful privilege I could ever imagine.
One of the biggest blessings is that I have a real friendship with Jehovah.
Friendship with my brothers and sisters.
Young or old, it doesn't matter.
I am really happy that when Jehovah looks at me,
I feel his approval.
That makes me happy.
My trust in Jehovah has grown stronger.
The way I communicate with him continues to improve.
And I also love my assignment of being a regular pioneer and elder
and to be able to support the brothers and sisters.
To continue to be among Jehovah's people,
that's the joy I was looking for and I found it.
The world tries to pass off the thrill of recognition or fame as fulfillment,
but do not be deceived.
These fine examples show that doing your best for Jehovah
leads to real contentment.
His small approval is worth more than any accolade this system of things could ever bestow.
Satan works tirelessly to wear us down physically and emotionally.
How can we have the courage to stand up to the challenges and pressures to give up?
The loving support True Christians give to one another
is illustrated in this month's music video entitled Do Not Be Afraid.
It's hard to see clear when challenges appear.
We get lost inside the emotions we feel.
When adversity strikes us down,
no need to stay on the ground,
reach out,
saving us with his right hand of righteousness
so when it gets hard,
so prayers of faith just pray.
The heartfelt appeal of that song brings to mind the words of Isaiah 41-10
where we're encouraged,
Do Not Be Afraid for I Am With You.
Do Not Be Anxious for I Am Your God.
I will fortify you.
Yes, I will help you.
I will really hold on to you with my right hand of righteousness.
Be assured that you will receive help from our Heavenly Father Jehovah
and from fellow believers to resist being molded by this system.
To conclude, we bring you greetings from Mata-ah
in the state of Amazonas and northern Brazil.
Nestled in the Amazon rainforest along the Japura River,
there are no roads leading to this city.
It can only be reached by river.
For most travelers reaching this city is a three-day journey
which involves sleeping in hammocks along the way.
Around 18,000 people inhabit the area
but because of its remote location,
many people have never had the opportunity to hear the good news.
With that in mind, along with several other cities,
Mata-ah was included in the Amazonas National Preaching Campaign.
The goal of this special campaign was to reach the thousands of people
who live in some of the Amazon's most isolated areas.
As a result, many willing brothers and sisters moved here
to serve where the need is greater.
Since the city is completely surrounded by rivers,
publishers reach interested ones by boat.
Special pioneers have played a large part in cultivating interest
by using this method of preaching.
One of the 23 congregations that were formed
as a result of the special campaign is located here.
Today, more than 20 publishers in the congregation
are conducting at least 100 Bible studies.
And we're happy to report that in 2017,
the first local family was baptized.
Our dear brothers and sisters are working hard
to help those in the Amazon region to learn about Jehovah.
And they send their warm love and greetings to all of us around the globe.
Thank you for joining us this month.
As always, this is JW Broadcasting
from the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.